Strengths: This proposal seeks to address the question of how energy
from AGN feedback is distributed into the intracluster medium which is
one of the key questions in galaxy and black hole evolution. The
proposal team is very strong and they have done an excellent job with
the observation plan.

Weaknesses: The two main weaknesses of this proposal are 1) that the
proposers do not address why the Armus et al. hypothesis should be
discounted and 2) there is insufficient justification for the choice
of this target. On the first point Armus et al. suggested that the
whiskers are cooling gas illuminated by QSO light rather than
(exclusively) powered by thermal conduction. While thermal conduction
is a reasonable alternative hypothesis the proposal would have been
stronger if the team had at least briefly outlined why the Armus et
al. hypothesis was unlikely to be correct - particularly given the
unusual nature of the BCG. This unusual nature is the origin of point
(2) namely that the atypical nature of the BCG (that it is also a
ULIRG and hosts a Seyfet nucleus) suggests that it does not offer the
best opportunity to gather more insight into the nature of typical
cool-core clusters. The proposal would have been stronger with a
better justification of the target selection. More supporting
ground-based observations such as NIR spectroscopy to measure Halpha
would also have strengthened the proposal.
