\documentclass[letterpaper,11pt]{article}
\usepackage[numbers,sort&compress]{natbib}
\bibliographystyle{unsrt}
\usepackage{common,graphicx}
\pagestyle{myheadings}
\setlength{\textwidth}{7.2in} 
\setlength{\textheight}{9.3in}
\setlength{\topmargin}{-0.3in} 
\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-0.35in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in} 
\setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0.3in} 
\setlength{\hoffset}{0in}
\setlength{\voffset}{0in}
\newcommand{\myhead}{Cavagnolo, Research Summary}
\begin{document}

\begin{center}
  {\bf\uppercase{Summary of Past and On-going Research}}
\end{center}

{\bf{I. Intracluster Medium (ICM) Temperature Inhomogeneity:}} If
simple galaxy cluster observables such as temperature or luminosity
are to serve as accurate mass proxies, how mergers alter these
observables needs to be quantified. It is known that cluster
substructure correlates well with dynamical state, and that the
apparently most relaxed clusters have the smallest deviations from
mean mass-observable relations [\eg\ 1]. If a cluster's ICM is nearly
isothermal in the projected region of interest, the X-ray temperature
inferred from a broadband (0.7-7.0 keV) spectrum should be identical
to the X-ray temperature inferred from a hard-band (2.0-7.0 keV)
spectrum. However, if there are unresolved, cool lumps of gas, the
temperature of a single-component thermal model will be cooler in the
broadband versus the hard-band. This difference is then possibly a
diagnostic to indicate the presence of cooler gas, \eg\ associated
with merging sub-clusters, even when the X-ray spectrum itself may not
have sufficient signal-to-noise to resolve multiple temperature
components [2]. In Cavagnolo \etal\ 2008 [3] we studied this
temperature band dependence for 192 clusters taken from the
\chandra\ Data Archive. We found, on average, that the hard-band
temperature was significantly higher than the broadband temperature,
and that their ratio was preferentially larger for known mergers. We
interpret this result to mean that, indeed, ICM temperature
inhomogeneity is detectable via a simple bandpass comparison and, on
average, it correlates with cluster dynamical state. Our results
suggest such a temperature diagnostic may be useful when designing
metrics to minimize the scatter about mean mass-scaling relations.

{\bf{II. ICM Entropy and Active Galactic Nucleus (AGN) Feedback:}} ICM
temperature and density mostly reflect the shape and depth of a
cluster's dark matter potential, while the specific entropy governs
the density at a given pressure [4]. The ICM is convectively stable
when the lowest gas entropy occupies the bottom of the cluster
potential and the highest entropy gas has buoyantly risen to larger
radii. Further, ICM entropy is primarily changed through heat
exchange. Thus, deviations of the ICM entropy structure from a pure
cooling azimuthally symmetric, radial power-law is useful in
evaluating a cluster's thermodynamic history [5]. One such use of ICM
entropy is studying energetic feedback on the cluster environment
[6]. In Cavagnolo \etal\ 2009 [7], the ICM entropy structure of 239
clusters taken from the \chandra\ Data Archive were studied. We found
that most clusters have entropy profiles which are well-fit by a model
which is a power-law at large radii and approaches a constant entropy
value at small radii: $K(r) = \kna + \khun (r/100 ~\kpc)^{\alpha}$,
where \kna\ quantifies the excess of core entropy above the best
fitting power-law at larger radii and \khun\ is the entropy
normalization at 100 kpc. Our results are consistent with models which
predict cooling of a cluster's X-ray halo is offset by energy injected
via feedback from AGN [\eg\ 6]. We also showed that the distribution
of \kna\ values in our archival sample is bimodal, with a distinct gap
around $\kna \approx 40 ~\ent$.

If cluster halo cooling triggers AGN feedback, then certain ICM
properties (\eg\ entropy) may correlate tightly with signatures of
feedback and/or indicators of cooling. In Cavagnolo \etal\ 2008 [8] we
explored the relationship between cluster core \kna\ values and
presence of \halpha\ \& radio emission. We found that \halpha\ and
radio emission are almost strictly associated with \kna\ values less
than $30 ~\ent$ (Fig. 1), which is near the gap of the bimodal
\kna\ distribution. The prevalence of \halpha\ emission below this
threshold indicates it marks a dichotomy between cluster cores that
can harbor thermal instabilities and those that cannot. The fact that
strong AGN activity appears below this boundary suggests that feedback
turns on when the ICM starts to condense, strengthening the case for
AGN feedback as the mechanism that limits star formation in the
Universe's most luminous galaxies. In Voit \etal\ 2008 [9], we go on
to suggest that core entropy bimodality and the sharp entropy
threshold arises from the influence of thermal conduction. This result
is one of the key motivating factors for the fellowship proposal that
follows, and is discussed in more detail therein.

{\bf{III. Properties of AGN Jets:}} A long-standing problem in
observational and theoretical studies of AGN energetics is estimating
their total kinetic energy output. These estimates have historically
been made using jet models built around first principles and
observations of how it {\it{appears}} jets interact with their
surroundings [\eg\ 10]. However, X-ray observations of clusters have
revealed that AGN outflows inflate cavities in the ICM, and these
cavities yield a direct measure of the work, and hence total
mechanical energy, exerted by the AGN on its environment [see 11, for
  details]. Hence, correlations between derived cavity power and
associated synchrotron radio power yields a useful device for
constraining total AGN energy output when X-ray data or cavities are
unavailable. Such relations between jet power (\pjet) and radio power
(\prad) for clusters were presented by \birzan\ \etal\ 2004, 2008 [12,
  13]. In Cavagnolo \etal\ 2010 [14] we appended a sample of 13 giant
ellipticals (gEs) and found that the \pjet-\prad\ relation is
continuous, and has similar scatter, from clusters down to gEs
(Fig. 2). We also found that, independent of frequency, \pjet\ scales
as $\sim \prad^{0.7}$ with a normalization of $\sim 10^{43}$ erg
s$^{-1}$. Numerous jet models predict a power-law index of $\approx
12/17$, consistent with our results, and normalizations of $\sim
10^{43} ~\lum$ when the ratio of non-radiating particles to
relativistic electrons is $\ga 20$ (\ie\ moderately heavy jets). Our
results imply that there does exist a universal scaling relation
between jet power and radio power, which would be a useful tool for
calculating AGN kinetic output over huge swathes of cosmic time using
only all-sky, monochromatic radio surveys.

{\bf{IV. Radio-mode and Quasar-mode Feedback:}} Galaxy formation
models typically segregate AGN feedback into an early-time,
radiatively-dominated quasar mode [\eg\ 15] and a late-time,
mechanically-dominated radio mode [\eg\ 16]. In quasar-mode, nucleus
radiation couples to gas within the host galaxy and drives strong
winds depriving the supermassive black hole (SMBH) of additional fuel,
regulating black hole mass growth. At later times, during
sub-Eddington accretion, SMBH launched jets regulate galaxy mass
growth through prolonged and intermittent mechanical heating of a
galaxy's gaseous halo. Though AGN feedback models are broken into two
generic modes, they still form a unified schema [\eg\ 17]. However,
the association of the modes, and whether they interact, is still
poorly understood. In Cavagnolo \etal\ 2010 [18] we present a study of
the galaxy IRAS 09104+4109 (IRAS09) which simultaneous exhibits all
the characteristics of a system in radio- and quasar-mode of feedback,
perhaps implying it is a ``transition'' object cycling between the
modes. A joint X-ray/radio analysis of IRAS09 reveals cavities in the
galaxy's X-ray halo associated with an AGN outflow having $\sim
10^{44} ~\lum$ of mechanical energy and an obscured nuclear quasar
with a luminosity of $\sim 10^{47} ~\lum$. We directly measure, for
the first time, that the radiative to mechanical feedback energy ratio
for a ``transition'' object is $\sim$1000:1. Further, the cavities
contain enough energy to offset $\approx 25-35\%$ of the host
cluster's ICM radiative cooling losses. However, how this energy is
thermalized remains unknown -- which is one aspect of the fellowship
proposal which follows. Nonetheless, our results suggest 3--4 similar
strength AGN outbursts are sufficient to suppress ICM core cooling and
freeze-out rapid BCG star formation. We also unambiguously demonstrate
that the beaming directions of the jets and nuclear radiation are
indeed misaligned, as previous studies have suggested. Our
interpretations of these findings are that IRAS09 may be providing a
local example of how the AGN feedback cycle of massive galaxies at
higher redshifts evolves, and may also be offering clues as to how the
evolution of black hole spin is closely correlated with the feedback
cycle.

{\bf{V. Black Hole Spin:}} While there is direct evidence that halo
cooling and late-time AGN feedback are linked [\eg\ 8], the
observational constraints on how AGN are fueled and powered remain
loose. For example, what fraction of the energy released in an AGN
outburst is from gravitational binding energy of accreting matter [19]
or the SMBH's rotational energy [20] is still unclear. Mass accretion
alone can, in principle, fuel most AGN [\eg\ 21]. However, there are
gas-poor systems which host very powerful AGN (energies $> 10^{61}$
erg) where mass accretion alone appears unlikely as a power source. In
these systems, either the AGN fueling was astoundingly efficient, or
the power came from an alternate source, such as the release of
angular momentum stored in a rapidly spinning SMBH [\eg\ 22]. If more
systems are found which are best explained as being spin powered, we
may need to incorporate a spin feedback pathway into galaxy formation
models. In Cavagnolo \etal\ 2010 [23], we present analysis of the AGN
outburst in the galaxy cluster RBS 797 and, because of the extreme
energetic demands of the outburst (total energy output and jet power
of the order $10^{61}$ erg and $10^{46} ~\lum$, respectively), we
suggest it may have been powered by a rapidly spinning SMBH. The model
of Garofalo \etal\ 2010 [24] suggests that the evolution of a black
hole's spin state is closely tied to the process of AGN feedback. In
their model, retrograde accretion induced spin-down forces a black
hole through a state where the spin is $\approx 0$. At this point, a
rapid asymmetric accretion flow can drastically and quickly reorient a
spin axis. This process is the focus of Cavagnolo \etal\ 2010 [25] as
it can possibly give rise to the type of beamed jet-radiation
misalignment observed in IRAS09, and can also result in the extraction
of extreme jet powers like in RBS 797.

\markright{\myhead}
\input{short_summary.bbl}
\begin{figure}[t]
    \begin{minipage}[t]{0.5\linewidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics*[width=\columnwidth, trim=28mm 7mm 40mm 17mm, clip]{ha.eps}
        \caption{\footnotesize Central entropy
          vs. \halpha\ luminosity. Orange circles represent
          \halpha\ detections, black circles are non-detection upper
          limits, and blue squares with inset red stars or orange
          circles are peculiar clusters which do not adhere to the
          observed trend. The vertical dashed line marks $\kna = 30
          ~\ent$. Note the presence of a sharp \halpha\ detection
          dichotomy beginning at $\kna \la 30 ~\ent$.}
        \label{fig:ha}
    \end{minipage}
    \hspace{0.1cm}
    \begin{minipage}[t]{0.5\linewidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics*[width=\textwidth, trim=30mm 5mm 40mm 15mm, clip]{pjet.eps}
        \caption{\footnotesize Cavity power vs. 1.4 GHz radio
          power. Orange triangles represent cluster and group sample
          of \birzan\ \etal\ 2008 [13], filled circles are our gE
          sample, colors represent the quality of cavities: green =
          `A,' blue = `B,' and red = `C.' Dotted red lines represent
          \birzan\ \etal\ best-fit relations. Dashed black lines
          represent our \bces\ best-fit power-law relations.}
        \label{fig:pjet}
    \end{minipage}
\end{figure}

\end{document}
