\documentclass[letterpaper,12pt]{article}
\usepackage[numbers,sort&compress]{natbib}
\bibliographystyle{unsrt}
\usepackage{common,graphicx}
\pagestyle{myheadings}
\setlength{\textwidth}{7.2in} 
\setlength{\textheight}{9.3in}
\setlength{\topmargin}{-0.3in} 
\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-0.35in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0in} 
\setlength{\headheight}{0in}
\setlength{\headsep}{0.3in} 
\setlength{\hoffset}{0in}
\setlength{\voffset}{0in}
\newcommand{\myhead}{Cavagnolo, Research Summary}
\begin{document}

\begin{center}
  {\bf\uppercase{Summary of Past and On-going Research}}
\end{center}

In a broad sense, my research program focuses on galaxy clusters, both
as astrophysical laboratories and interesting structures in their own
right. In the case of the latter, it is the properties of the
intracluster medium (ICM) which have captivated me, while for the
former, I am most interested in feedback from active galactic nuclei
(AGN) and the processes which couple AGN activity and the ICM. Some
highlights of my research in these areas are presented below.\\

\noindent{\bf{I. ICM Temperature Inhomogeneity}}\\
\indent If simple galaxy cluster observables such as temperature or
luminosity are to serve as accurate mass proxies, how mergers alter
these observables needs to be quantified. It is known that cluster
substructure correlates well with dynamical state, and that the
apparently most relaxed clusters have the smallest deviations from
mean mass-observable relations [\eg\ 1]. But, 2D analysis is at the
mercy of perspective. If a cluster's ICM is nearly isothermal in the
projected region of interest, the X-ray temperature inferred from a
broadband (0.7-7.0 keV) spectrum should be identical to the X-ray
temperature inferred from a hard-band (2.0-7.0 keV) spectrum. However,
if there are unresolved, cool lumps of gas, the temperature of a
single-component thermal model will be cooler in the broadband versus
the hard-band. This difference is then possibly a diagnostic to
indicate the presence of cooler gas, \eg\ associated with merging
sub-clusters, even when the X-ray spectrum itself may not have
sufficient signal-to-noise to resolve multiple temperature components
[2].

In Cavagnolo \etal\ 2008 [3] we studied this temperature band
dependence for 192 clusters taken from the \chandra\ Data Archive. We
found, on average, that the hard-band temperature was significantly
higher than the broadband temperature, and that their ratio was
preferentially larger for known mergers (Fig. 1). The interpretation
of this result is that, indeed, ICM temperature inhomogeneity is
detectable via a simple bandpass comparison and, on average, it
correlates with cluster dynamical state. Our results suggest such a
temperature diagnostic may be useful when designing metrics to
minimize the scatter about mean mass-scaling relations in an attempt
to obtain smaller uncertainties in cluster mass estimates.\\

\noindent{\bf{II. ICM Entropy and AGN Feedback}}\\ \indent ICM
temperature and density mostly reflect the shape and depth of a
cluster's dark matter potential -- it is the specific entropy ($K
\approx \tx \nelec^{-2/3}$) which governs the density at a given
pressure [4]. Ignoring convective instabilities induced by anisotropic
conduction, the ICM is convectively stable when the lowest gas entropy
occupies the bottom of the cluster potential and the highest entropy
gas has buoyantly risen to larger radii. Further, ICM entropy is
primarily changed through heat exchange. Thus, deviations of the ICM
entropy structure from the azimuthally symmetric, radial power-law
distribution which should result from pure cooling are useful in
evaluating a cluster's thermodynamic history [5]. One key use of ICM
entropy is for studying the effects of energetic feedback on the
cluster environment and investigating the breakdown of cluster
self-similarity [6].

In Cavagnolo \etal\ 2009 [7], the ICM entropy structure of 239
clusters taken from the \chandra\ Data Archive were studied. We found
that most clusters have entropy profiles which are well-fit by a model
which is a power-law at large radii and approaches a constant entropy
value at small radii: $K(r) = \kna + \khun (r/100 ~\kpc)^{\alpha}$,
where \kna\ quantifies the typical excess of core entropy above the
best fitting power-law found at larger radii and \khun\ is the entropy
normalization at 100 kpc (Fig. 2). Our results are consistent with
models which predict cooling of a cluster's X-ray halo is offset by
energy injected via feedback from AGN [\eg\ 6]. We also showed that
the distribution of \kna\ values in our archival sample is bimodal,
with a distinct gap around $\kna \approx 40 ~\ent$.

If cooling of a galaxy cluster's halo triggers eventual heating via an
AGN-centric feedback loop, then certain ICM properties (\eg\ entropy)
may correlate tightly with signatures of feedback and/or indicators of
cooling. In Cavagnolo \etal\ 2008 [8] we explored the relationship
between \halpha\ emission from cluster cores, radio emission from
cluster central galaxies, and cluster \kna\ values. Utilizing the
results of the archival study of intracluster entropy, we found that
\halpha\ and radio emission are almost strictly associated with
\kna\ values less than $30 ~\ent$ (Fig. 3), which is near the gap of
the \kna\ distribution. The prevalence of \halpha\ emission below this
threshold indicates that it marks a dichotomy between clusters that
can harbor thermal instabilities (\eg\ multiphase gas, star formation)
in their cores and those that cannot. The fact that strong central
radio emission also appears below this boundary suggests that feedback
from an AGN turns on when the ICM starts to condense, strengthening
the case for AGN feedback as the mechanism that limits star formation
in the Universe's most luminous galaxies. In Voit \etal\ 2008 [9], we
go on to suggest that core entropy bimodality and the sharp entropy
threshold arises from the influence of thermal conduction. This result
is one of the key motivating factors for the fellowship proposal that
follows, and is discussed in more detail therein.\\

\noindent{\bf{III. Details of AGN Feedback}}\markright{\myhead}\\
\indent{\bf{A. Properties of Jets:}} A long-standing problem in
observational and theoretical studies of AGN energetics is estimating
total kinetic energy output. These estimates have historically been
made using jet models built around first principles and observations
of how it {\it{appears}} jets interact with their surroundings
[\eg\ 10]. However, X-ray observations of clusters have revealed that
AGN outflows inflate cavities in the ICM, and these cavities yield a
direct measure of the work, and hence total mechanical energy, exerted
by the AGN on its environment [see 11, for details]. Hence, any
correlation between derived cavity power and associated synchrotron
radio power yields a useful device for constraining total AGN energy
output when X-ray data or cavities are unavailable. Such relations
between jet power (\pjet) and radio power (\prad) for clusters were
presented by \birzan\ \etal\ 2004, 2008 [12, 13]. In Cavagnolo
\etal\ 2010 [14] we appended a sample of 13 giant ellipticals (gEs) to
these studies to determine if a single \pjet-\prad\ relation extends
from clusters down to isolated gEs.

Utilizing the analysis of $> 70$ multifrequency, archival
\vla\ observations and an array of low-frequency radio surveys, we
found that the \pjet-\prad\ relation is continuous, and has similar
scatter, from clusters down to gEs (Fig. 4). We also found that,
independent of frequency, \pjet\ scales as $\sim \prad^{0.7}$ with a
normalization of $\sim 10^{43}$ erg s$^{-1}$. Numerous jet models
predict a power-law index of $\approx 12/17$, consistent with our
results, and normalizations of $\sim 10^{43} ~\lum$ when the ratio of
non-radiating particles to relativistic electrons is $\ga 20$
(\ie\ moderately heavy jets). Our results imply that there does exist
a universal scaling relation between jet power and radio power, which
would be a useful tool for calculating AGN kinetic output over huge
swathes of cosmic time using only all-sky, monochromatic radio
surveys. The impact of this result extends into the areas of galaxy
formation, black hole growth, and the mechanical heating of the
universe.

\indent{\bf{B. Radio-mode and Quasar-mode Feedback:}} Galaxy formation
models typically segregate AGN feedback into a distinct early-time,
radiatively-dominated quasar mode [\eg\ 15] and a late-time,
mechanically-dominated radio mode [\eg\ 16]. In quasar-mode, it is
believed that intense quasar radiation ($> 10^{46} ~\lum$) couples to
gas within the host galaxy and drives strong winds which deprive the
SMBH of additional fuel, regulating growth of black hole mass. At
later times, when quasar activity has faded and radio mode feedback
takes over, SMBH launched jets regulate the growth of galaxy mass
through prolonged and intermittent mechanical heating of a galaxy's
gaseous halo (\ie\ the process discussed in Section A). Though AGN
feedback models are broken into two generic modes, they still form a
unified schema [\eg\ 17] which predicts a continuous distribution of
AGN luminosities. However, the association of the modes, and whether
they interact, is still poorly understood. In Cavagnolo \etal\ 2010
[18] we present a study of the famous \& enigmatic massive galaxy IRAS
09104+4109 (IRAS09) which simultaneous exhibits all the
characteristics of a system in radio- and quasar-mode of feedback,
perhaps implying it is a ``transition'' object cycling between the
modes.

A joint X-ray/radio analysis of IRAS09 reveals cavities in the
galaxy's X-ray halo associated with an AGN outflow having $\sim
10^{44} ~\lum$ of mechanical energy and an obscured nuclear quasar
with a luminosity of $\sim 10^{47} ~\lum$. We directly measure, for
the first time, that the radiative to mechanical feedback energy ratio
for a ``transition'' object is $\sim$1000:1. Further, the cavities
contain enough energy to offset $\approx 25-35\%$ of the host
cluster's ICM radiative cooling losses. However, how this energy is
thermalized remains unknown -- which is one aspect of the fellowship
proposal which follows. Nonetheless, our results suggest 3--4 similar
strength AGN outbursts are sufficient to suppress ICM core cooling and
freeze-out rapid BCG star formation. We also unambiguously demonstrate
that the beaming directions of the jets and nuclear radiation are
indeed misaligned, as previous studies have suggested. Our
interpretations of these findings are that IRAS09 may be providing a
local example of how the AGN feedback cycle of massive galaxies at
higher redshifts evolves, and may also be offering clues as to how the
evolution of black hole spin is closely correlated with the feedback
cycle.

\indent{\bf{C. Black Hole Spin:}} Current models of the late-time
feedback loop posit that cooling processes in a galaxy's halo result
in mass accretion onto a central supermassive black hole (SMBH),
thereby driving AGN activity. While there is direct evidence that halo
cooling and feedback are linked [\eg\ 8], the observational
constraints on how AGN are fueled and powered remain loose. For
example, what fraction of the energy released in an AGN outburst is
attributable to the gravitational binding energy of the accreting
matter [19] and the SMBH's rotational energy [20] is still
unclear. Mass accretion alone can, in principle, fuel most AGN
[\eg\ 21]. However, there are gas-poor systems which host very
powerful AGN (energies $> 10^{61}$ erg) where mass accretion alone
appears unlikely as a power source. The importance of these systems in
understanding AGN feedback is that either the AGN fueling has been
astoundingly efficient, or the power has come from an alternate
source, such as the release of angular momentum stored in a rapidly
spinning SMBH [\eg\ 22]. If more such systems can be found, then it
may be necessary to incorporate a SMBH spin feedback pathway into
galaxy formation models.

In Cavagnolo \etal\ 2010 [23], we present analysis of the AGN outburst
in the galaxy cluster RBS 797 and, because of the extreme energetic
demands of the outburst, suggest it may have been powered by black
hole spin. We estimate the total energy output and jet power to be of
the order $10^{61}$ erg and $10^{46} ~\lum$, respectively. These
enormous energies demand that mass accretion alone is an implausible
explanation for how the outburst was powered, and we thus suggest that
the outburst resulted from the extraction of rotational energy stored
in a rapidly-spinning SMBH. We conclude that RBS 797 may be further
observational evidence that some AGN are powered by the release of
SMBH spin energy.

The model of Garofalo \etal\ 2010 [24] suggests that the evolution of
a black hole's spin state is closely tied to the process of AGN
feedback. In their model, during the process of retrograde accretion
induced spin-down, a black hole should pass through a state where its
spin is $\approx 0$. At this point, an asymmetric accretion flow
exceeding a mass-dependent critical accretion rate can drastically and
quickly reorient a spin axis. This process is the focus of Cavagnolo
\etal\ 2010 [25] as it can possibly give rise to the type of beamed
jet-radiation misalignment observed in IRAS09, and can also result in
the extraction of extreme jet powers like in RBS 797. In this work, we
discuss the complications of re-orienting the spin axis of a SMBH via
mergers, which has become a bit fashionable as an explanation for how
AGN feedback energy is distributed beyond the small cross-section of
AGN jets. In the following fellowship proposal, how AGN feedback
energy may be distributed is instead discussed in terms of
microphysical ICM processes like conduction, turbulence, and
magnetohydrodynamic instabilities.

\markright{\myhead}
\begin{figure}[t]
    \begin{minipage}[t]{0.5\linewidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics*[width=\textwidth, trim=17mm 3mm 10mm 11mm, clip]{thbr.eps}
        \caption{\footnotesize $T_{HBR}$ vs. $T_{0.7-7.0}$. The dashed
          line is the line of equivalence. Symbols and color coding
          are based on two criteria: 1) presence of a cool core (CC)
          and 2) value of $T_{HBR}$. Black stars are clusters with a
          CC and $T_{HBR}$ significantly greater than 1.1. Green
          upright-triangles are NCC clusters with $T_{HBR}$
          significantly greater than 1.1. Blue down-facing triangles
          are CC clusters and red squares are NCC clusters. It is
          found that most, if not all, of the clusters with $T_{HBR}
          \ga 1.1$ are merger systems.}
        \label{fig:thbr}
    \end{minipage}
    \hspace{0.1in}
    \begin{minipage}[t]{0.5\linewidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics*[width=\textwidth, trim=28mm 7mm 30mm 17mm, clip]{splots_allt.eps}
        \caption{\footnotesize Composite plot of entropy profiles for
          archival sample. Profiles are color-coded based on average
          cluster temperature; units of the color bar are keV. The
          solid line is the pure-cooling model of Voit \etal\ 2002
          [4], the dashed line is the mean profile for clusters with
          $\kna \le 50 ~\ent$, and the dashed-dotted line is the mean
          profile for clusters with $\kna > 50 ~\ent$.}
        \label{fig:splots}
    \end{minipage}
    \hspace{0.1in}
    \begin{minipage}[t]{0.5\linewidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics*[width=\columnwidth, trim=28mm 7mm 40mm 17mm, clip]{ha.eps}
        \caption{\footnotesize Central entropy
          vs. \halpha\ luminosity. Orange circles represent
          \halpha\ detections, black circles are non-detection upper
          limits, and blue squares with inset red stars or orange
          circles are peculiar clusters which do not adhere to the
          observed trend. The vertical dashed line marks $\kna = 30
          ~\ent$. Note the presence of a sharp \halpha\ detection
          dichotomy beginning at $\kna \la 30 ~\ent$.}
        \label{fig:ha}
    \end{minipage}
    \hspace{0.1cm}
    \begin{minipage}[t]{0.5\linewidth}
        \centering
        \includegraphics*[width=\textwidth, trim=30mm 5mm 40mm 15mm, clip]{pjet.eps}
        \caption{\footnotesize Cavity power vs. 1.4 GHz radio
          power. Orange triangles represent cluster and group sample
          of \birzan\ \etal\ 2008 [13], filled circles are our gE
          sample, colors represent the quality of cavities: green =
          `A,' blue = `B,' and red = `C.' Dotted red lines represent
          \birzan\ \etal\ best-fit relations. Dashed black lines
          represent our \bces\ best-fit power-law relations.}
        \label{fig:pjet}
    \end{minipage}
\end{figure}

\markright{\myhead}
\input{short_summary.bbl}

\end{document}
