Hi Ken,

I'm not sure what you mean by "trustworthiness."  I would need to dig
around to find good refs, but there has certainly been discussion in
the literature of issues such as 3d shape, bright rims and cavity
filling factors < 1.  The effect of bright rims can go either way,
depending on the distribution of the gas in the rims.  You can say
something about the likely effect of bright rims by looking at how the
SB varies around an annulus centered on the AGN, that goes through the
middle of a cavity.  Bright rims would create a localised increase in
SB near the cavities.  Filling factors < 1 can only reduce cavity
contrast.  There is no harm in adding some discussion of these issues,
since they are pertinent.

As an aside, the beta model used to calculate decrements is symmetric
about the plane of the sky.  As a consequence, a cavity must cross the
plane of the sky to get a decrement > 50%.  If we are looking almost
down the axis of a highly elongated radio lobe cavity, it would be
unlikely to cross the plane of the sky.  I still prefer this
interpretation for the large decrements, but it is a little awkward if
the decrement really exceeds 50%.  These issues should be addressed.
I would argue that the large decrement still suggest that we are
looking almost along the axis of radio lobe cavities.  However, a
(significant) 60% decrement would demand some imperfection in the
decrement model. The two obvious possibilities (bright rims and
asymmetry in the large-scale gas distribution about the plane of the
sky) each have observational consequences (bright rims as above;
large-scale asymmetry would produce asymmetric decrements) you could
then consider.

Regards
Paul
